 QUESTION 2: SECURE PROJECT WORKSPACE REPORT 


1. Commands Executed & System Outputs
- Command 1: mkdir -p project_workspace/docs project_workspace/src
  Output: [Clean new line, no errors]
  Explanation: I used 'mkdir -p' to build a nested project folder layout containing 'docs' and 'src' subdirectories. I observed that the system generated the entire folder path instantly.

- Command 2: umask
  Output: 0022
  Explanation: I executed the 'umask' command to check the system's default file permission filter. I observed that the system blocks write access for group and public tiers by default.

- Command 3: ls -ld project_workspace
  Output: drwxr-xr-x 4 coder coder 4 june 23 20:44 project_workspace
  Explanation: I ran 'ls -ld' to audit the initial permissions of my workspace folder. I observed that it originally allowed anyone on the system to read and open my folders.

- Command 4: chmod 750 project_workspace
  Output: [Clean new line]
  Explanation: I executed 'chmod 750' to restrict access to my folder. I observed that it assigned full permissions to me, read/execute permissions to my team group, and blocked outsiders completely.

- Command 5: ls -ld project_workspace
  Output: drwxr-x--- 4 coder coder 4 june 23 20:44 project_workspace
  Explanation: I ran 'ls -ld' a second time to verify my permission adjustments. I observed that the security string successfully changed to 'drwxr-x---', proving the folder is locked down.

2. Summary of Observations
I learned that permissions are divided into Owner, Group, and Others. By modifying the permissions to 750, I successfully protected project data by blocking unauthorized users from viewing or modifying files, while keeping them open for my team.
1. Directory Structure Created
  Folders generated: project_workspace/ containing two subfolders named 'docs' and 'src'.
  

2. Permissions BEFORE Modification: drwxr-xr-x
   Permissions AFTER Modification:  drwxr-x---


3. Ownership Details: The owner of the folder is '' and the group is ''.

  
4. My System Umask Value: 
 
 

5. Brief Observations and Explanations
     
    Umask is a hidden setting that decides the initial security permissions given to any brand-new folder or file you create.
  -Permissions Before and After:
    At first, the folder had 'drwxr-xr-x' permissions. This meant anyone on the system could look inside my files.
    After running the 'chmod 750' command, it changed to 'drwxr-x---'. This means the folders are now safely locked down.

6 How these permissions protect project data:
The numbers '750' represent :
1. The first number (7) gives the Owner (me) full power to Read, Write, and change files.
2. The second number (5) allows my Group (team members) to look at and open files, but they cannot delete or change them.
3. The final number (0) completely blocks Everyone Else (others). Unauthorised users cannot see, open, or touch anything inside this project workspace, keeping our data completely secure.